Okay, thank you everybody. This is the
town of Andover Board of Finance uh
regular meeting for Wednesday, July
23rd, 2025.
Uh we'll go ahead and call the meeting
to order at 7:01 and recite the pledge
of allegiance. I pledge allegiance to
the flag United States United States of
America
>> and to the republic for which it stands
one nation under God indivisible
indivisibley
and justice for all for all.
>> Okay, thank you. Um we have an
opportunity for public speak. Looks like
I see Linda Fish is the only member of
the public.
>> Linda, anything to add?
>> Nope. Just like to show up. You like it
when you do
>> ameritus board member that you are.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. We'll go ahead on to agenda item
three which is changes and additions to
the agenda. So uh many if not all of you
may have seen the last late email I sent
out. Um, and this is kind of on me that
the treasurer had sent me that email
just prior to when I was headed to
Europe for, you know, two and a half
weeks. And I I guess I just got busy and
I forgot to uh send it on to Kate,
remind her to put it on the agenda. Um,
so this is a request from the uh I'm
going to go ahead and open that up. A
request from the Norton Commission to
set up a new uh internal fund. Uh they
said they received a donation and we'll
be receiving funds on a yearly basis
which will provide scholarships. Um and
uh the I said I need I need and this is
Cheryl Cheryl's note says I need board
permission to set up the new permanent
fund account and a new fund that will be
reported in the non- major permanent
funds. Uh could you please set up the
agenda item? So with that being said uh
I would like to add that uh to our
agenda. Anybody would like to make a
motion to add the Norton uh scholarship
fund to the agenda?
>> I'll make a motion to join
>> to do that. And that's basically for
Diane Grineier. It's uh
>> Yeah. Well, let's do I have a second.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. So, any discussion? Looks like
this I mean about adding We're just
changing the agenda now. We're not
voting on this. Okay. This would be item
uh five which would be um Norton
commission uh permanent fund.
>> All those in favor say I.
>> I.
>> No opposed and no abstensions. Okay.
Thank you. Okay. So, we'll move on to it
agenda item four. This is the levy
schedule for AES payments. This is a
fairly routine matter, but it does have
to be decided and voted on by the board
of finance. Um Eric has attached a
proposed levy schedule that matches uh
what the um
uh AES district has requested. Basically
the amount of money that were allocated
to them in the budget they prefer to
have with over 10 equal payments uh on
the schedule on page two of the packet
basically starting in July and going on
through April of next year. Um so um we
can have discussion about it. Somebody
can make a motion to accept that
schedule. Um
>> is that any different than what it's
always been? Has it always been 10?
>> I think it's always been like that,
Eric. Do you know?
>> So we've This is only the third year we
did this because before that we just
paid their expenses directly. We had a
combined checking account.
>> Right. Right. Um so from RAM we get a
broken out levy schedule for both
operating and capital expenses and there
they base so every month has a different
amount based on you know the last x
number of years of data they know when
their the majority of their expenses are
and they asked for their allocation
based on that. the school has never
really been willing to provide anything
like that uh to the town. So given that,
the only thing we can really do is divvy
it up into payments and pay them equal
amounts um the first 10 months of the
year. I personally feel it should be the
board of ed's responsibility
to make this request to you, but since
they haven't and we need to actually pay
them for the month of July, um I the
with the treasur's concurrence put it on
the agenda.
>> So they don't have any like and I'm just
asking the question, Eric, like some
months are sometimes like you say more
weighted, you know, certain things come
due, other months are thin. So they
don't have any preference like that.
They just want 10 equal payments. They
don't care about some months being, you
know,
>> um the treasures repeatedly asked them
to provide a levy schedule in the past
>> that matched their actual proposed
expenditures, but they have never done
that or
>> okay,
>> you know, provided that.
>> Okay.
>> And equal payments it is, I guess.
>> Right. What if we what if we um
entertain the thought of
giving them an initial payment to pay
what they have expenses for now and then
talk to them about like expecting
expecting um a levy
statement.
>> I know that feel
>> sorry to interrupt Liz. I thought you
were done. I was just going to mention
that working in a school and working
right with the bookkeeper that July is a
big month where we do a lot of because I
talked about it today. We have a person
who's out and to get the back to school
teacher supplies and everything that
they kind of divvy up to each classroom
at the beginning of the year. There's a
lot of purchase orders and ordering done
right now because our our person was
out. So, we're trying to hurry up and
get the things ordered because then
they, you know, the purchase orders have
to be created. Um, the orders have to go
out and then they have to come in. So, I
would just I have nothing against what
Liz just say before Mark had called on
me. I was just going to say I know this
is a big month of ordering for the
beginning of school, July and August,
because even myself, I was thinking,
why do we start in July? And then I
went, I know this because this is what
we were doing today. Uh you can go back
to Liz's thought. I just wanted to say
that it's probably starting in July
fiscal year. A lot of the back to school
or what they'll need at the beginning is
ordered July and August.
>> Yeah, that makes sense if we do it.
Yeah. Go ahead, Liz. Yeah, I was going
to say I think it makes sense and and I
wouldn't be opposed to even say uh um
putting up for July and August even to
give us maybe a couple of months to give
them the opportunity to give us a type
of levy schedule that Eric was talking
about.
you know, my my my own personal feeling
is I'm not sure it buys as much to to to
do that for this year. Um wouldn't be a
bad idea necessarily to kind of make the
point. Um I I would would not be
surprised if we pushed in that direction
that we ended up with a front-loaded
schedule, though, which isn't
necessarily in the town's best interest.
Uh and maybe that would match their
needs. I don't know, but it seems like
if if the equal payments matches their
needs, then you know, their number one
expenditure really is payroll. So,
they've got to do that and that's pretty
level loaded.
>> Uh they may have other expenditures that
if we don't have major capital
expenditures associated with the schools
that we don't deal with kind of
separately.
>> Um so
>> I guess they're fine.
>> I'm a little surprised because I think
Joanne makes a good point that you know
a lot of their expenditures probably do
start they got to start payroll uh in
August. I've got to have that funded
early. So, yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> I saw somebody's hands up, Rob.
>> Yeah. I was just going to say, I mean,
I'm fine.
>> I'm not hearing you, Rob. I'm not
hearing you anyway.
>> It doesn't look like you're on mute.
>> You can't You can't hear me?
>> I hear you.
>> No, I hear I don't know what's going on.
>> I'm gonna pass you over for Kim. I think
she had her hand raised, too. Did you
have her your hand up, Kim?
>> I did. I just um Aren't they like
>> I'm not hearing you either. Is it me?
>> It's
you. Mark,
>> you
>> I thought during the summer months they
didn't have payroll.
>> Um
>> Mark, you brought up that you know they
payroll.
>> Can you hear now?
>> Yep.
>> Okay.
So, so just really quick, my my thought
is that we we roll with this as
requested and but we continue to talk to
them about uh what Liz is talking about,
you know, and what Eric mentioned, which
is, you know, going forward, it would be
best practice maybe to to have it to
have a more of a sense for and track it,
you know, some sort of threeyear rolling
average kind of thing where we can
adjust this as needed. But for now, I
don't see any basis for not doing it out
as they've requested. Um, but I think we
should continue to talk to them about,
you know, that and other things that
that
the capital plan, you know, various
things that we'd like to see them
tighten up and bring to us. So, that's
my take.
>> I guess I agree with Rob if that's what
they want. I I was thinking in terms of
their needs if they had heavier months
that they would want. I if they just
want 10 equal payments that's we'll give
them 10 equal payments, but I was trying
to be, you know, like is there months
that they need more money than months
that they don't? I was just trying to
think of their their needs. But if they
just want 10 equal payments, then that's
what they requested. I do go along with
the thought of, you know, it would be
nice to have them, you know, give us
some kind of like look back three years
like Rob said, right? like like what
were the months that were the heaviest
bills for them or whatever trying to
accommodate them but
>> not having another schedule or another
request from them
I guess we just give them the 10 equal
payments
>> yeah that would be my thought
>> is there a way to maybe give them nine
and then look to see what they have in
their account
in March to see if maybe 10th one I mean
do have to give them the entire amount.
>> Yeah, do
>> a budgeted figure. We pass
>> voted. That's
>> we have to
thought.
>> I was going to say I feel like we get it
and I think we're all going to see that
they end up having a lot more.
>> I understand what Liz is getting at, but
remember all the reports we get, they
seem to have a lot of money left
um and then they spend it towards the
end of the year. So luckily we get one
expenditure report and then we we see
the big totals and whatever they use. So
I don't know the month-to-month.
>> I mean I'm on board to getting more
reporting that we've always talked about
in the past. It seems like right when we
we have that big figure that was voted
in at the budget at the beginning and
then we get that monthtomonth and we see
maybe there's still a lot left maybe in
January and we've asked about it in our
meetings. We've all had those questions.
So, yeah, I'm not opposed to splitting
it up the 10 ways. Um, I'm not opposed
to anyone asking for more reporting,
too, more detail. But I think that we're
going to find that what we get is what
we've seen on the expenditure reports.
But that's all that's my point because
year after year that I've served on this
board, it seems like we look at that
every year and then we'll go to January
and be like, "Oh, there's still a big
chunk." I'm on the expense the expense
side. Obviously, we've been funding
them. Um,
>> yeah.
>> Kim, did you have something? Kim Kim had
>> wanted to make a comment.
>> Kim,
>> actually, no. I I I did respond earlier.
I I do think that we need to get much
better reporting from Andover Elementary
School.
>> So, I mean, at this time,
>> much better. My thought would be I' I'd
move to just uh go ahead and accept this
payment schedule a as they've requested
and then yeah, as we've all discussed uh
we continue to talk to the board of ed
and seek, you know, more granular
information. But for now, I think we
just go with this. So that's my motion.
>> I'll second that motion.
>> Okay. Bill seconds. Um okay, further
discussion?
Yeah, I just want to um I'm not opposed
to it either. I just wanted to point out
that Eric said that they didn't actually
request this. This is actually just kind
of going and doing what what has been
done in the past couple of years.
>> So, I just wanted to call that out.
>> Fair fair point of order there. Port of
information. Sorry.
Well, the superintendent has certainly
been uh unhappy with me that we haven't
paid them their July August or their
July payment already.
>> Oh,
>> well, she could have sent us an email,
right?
>> That's okay, Eric.
>> Okay. Okay. Well,
>> we'll we'll get it we'll get it done and
it'll be fine.
>> We'll get it done. I think part of it is
to make it clear that look um you know
we're looking for some guidance from
them on where and when and uh I think
that'll that'll be our message uh going
forward and you know I can even send
them a letter to that to that u
>> right
it may very well end up that they come
back to us if they have their experience
and say actually you know we need we
want $600,000 in in month one because of
all the supplies and everything like
that. Yeah, we'll have to, you know,
we'll have to
>> one way or the other, we're spending the
money. But
>> yeah, exactly. There isn't going to be
any change. It's just it's just
understanding kind of what the needs
are.
>> What is actually the best day history
shows that they're fairly level loaded
and there isn't any real variation. So,
this is just simpler for everybody. If
that's the case, let's find that out.
So,
>> yeah.
>> Yeah. So, for reference, if you look at
the regional school district
uh levy schedule, the lightest month is
$237,000
and the heaviest month they ask for is
$624,000.
>> And what are those months, Eric? Sorry,
I don't have it in front of me.
>> Uh July
and August are both light months. The
heaviest month is November
>> and January.
>> So July and August are the lightest
months. Okay.
>> Fascinating.
>> That makes sense. Point earlier about
payroll. I don't think they're paying
payroll at the beginning of
>> there shouldn't be payroll during the
>> in August. They get their
>> I mean they probably have 52 they do
have workers like I'm a 52 week worker.
There's there's probably several people
in the building that do get paid.
>> And I think the last week of July,
they're probably having teachers come in
and start things up, right?
>> No, it's usually August. It's usually
week before.
>> Their first pay will be in August at
some point, right?
>> Oh, okay.
>> I mean, they may come in during the
summer on their own. We have people in
all the time, but
>> Right. That's right. Last week. Sorry, I
got my months confused. I mean,
>> the week before school starts is what I
was thinking. Yeah.
Anyway, um yeah, the motion u
I just um say if you send any
correspondence out to the school with
your questions, could you make sure that
we're all included on it, please?
>> Yep. Absolutely. Y
>> and I I'll go along with it, but I with
the whole, you know, dispersements for
the year, but I would like to make it
clear that I want to see a lot more
detail.
>> I would like to see a plan, you know, I
would like to see a plan and you know,
Yeah, I would I would put it as a plan.
The the detail would be coming. Yeah,
the reporting and stuff. Yeah. But yeah,
>> this is the taxpayers's money.
>> Yeah. So,
okay. Any more discussion?
Okay. All those in favor of the motion
to just accept the levy as a technical
payment, say I. I. I.
>> Any opposed?
>> Any abstensions?
Okay, hearing none. Motion passes
unanimously. Thank you. All right, we
will go to the next item, which is the
um
proposed fund for the uh Norton
Commission.
And uh Luis, you had something to add
about this. I didn't get a lot of
detail.
>> Yeah. Um Diane Granier actually um
started wants to start a legacy type of
scholarship fund
>> and the bulk of the money is in the
Harford Foundation, but just starting
off at $1,000 to start open up the fund
after that is going to work like the
same as Norton where the interest of
that money will be deposited into that
account every year.
So, we need to start we need to kind of
deposit that thousand check into an
account to get that ball rolling.
>> And they want to keep this separate
account for just internal or two
different things, right? Two different
sources. Okay.
>> Thank you, Louise. That's nice. It's
really nice.
>> It was awfully nice of her. Yes.
>> Yes. It's really nice.
>> Just to clarify, so the the donation we
got so far is $1,000. That's what we've
received,
>> right?
So, we just take that, we create the
fund, we we stick it in there. Okay.
>> Right.
>> What are we calling the fund? Are we
calling it
>> I mean, the email reference the Norton
um right um commission, but I don't
think this is the same thing. Correct.
>> Well, it's it's by the Norton
Commission.
>> Scholarship.
>> So, something about scholarship.
>> Did you have a preference for what she
wanted to call it?
I don't I would assume it would be the
uh legacy fund on
>> I'm not% sure.
>> Okay.
>> Well,
and I don't know that what we counted it
what we call it at least immediately is
that critical.
>> Yeah.
>> Not as much as the fund itself. I did
get an email from um
>> Charlotte Nelson who's the chair of the
Norton Commission earlier today and what
she how the way she um characterized and
actually labeled it was an approving an
account set up for the Norton Commission
in the name of the Diane Grineier Legacy
Scholarship.
>> Oh, okay.
>> Nice.
>> Let's just mimic that then.
>> Yeah.
>> Eric, you got a hand up? Yeah, I just so
right now I think we have eight
different Norton funds in one form or
another uh or eight funds that are under
the opaces
of the Norton commission. Um remember
those are all funds that have to be
reconciled and go into our ledger every
year separately. So, understand that
there's an opportunity cost and we're
paying a treasurer um a fairly good
amount of money to deal with these, but
they're good things for the town to
have. I'm not opposed to them. What the
treasurer has asked is that
currently all the Norton funds are in
separate bank accounts.
>> That is really clooji.
>> And right now we're getting 0.1%
interest on those. Mnt will give us uh
2% or 2.5% I don't remember which if we
consolidate those into a single B bank
account with pulled cash and just
separate on our end what gets assigned
to what which is perfectly it's as easy
to do as it is to maintain seven or
eight different bank accounts. So my
suggestion to the was to the Norton fund
is to agree to uh add the fund but only
if the Norton fund will authorize the
treasurer to go to pulled cash and go
down to a single account which is is in
their best interest because the amount
of interest they get goes up by a factor
of 20. Eric, I knew we discussed this
earlier that when I saw this, I I knew
the treasurer was trying to break down
all those separate accounts, you know,
for the ease of work. So, I was
surprised to to see Mark's email asking
to open another separate account for a
fund. So, hopefully I know that you're
they're trying to, you know, you're
trying to minimize the amount of
accounts. So maybe in the are you
thinking I mean it obviously has to be
their decision if they take this money
in and then just kind of the way they
account for it keep it separate like in
spreadsheets or whatever we all do
>> the way we do it with our other
>> final in one is this one a or two or
whatever.
>> Yeah there is a person on the board
Heidi who does all those all those
calculations. Um, I can go back to them
and ask them. I mean, are you saying
that in order to open the fund, we would
have to have everything consolidated now
or can you open the fund now and then we
can consolidate them?
>> I think we can open the fund and approve
the fund and the reporting separately.
And this was something that I think that
the treasurer had within the last week
or two um and I can't remember how I was
I was copying on something had requested
that the the Norton Commission consider
a consolidated fund under a different
you know under a better interestbearing
account. I don't know if the if the
commission has met since then to to
discuss it. Um but I think that
Charlotte had had responded and said
thanks for the info. They would
definitely consider it. Um, so that was
kind of the last that I had seen from
that.
>> I can go back to them and ask that. Um,
but I I hate to see it kind of delayed
because of that.
>> You know, to me that's kind of a
treasury question whether it's one
account or or multiple. I don't know if
we as a board of finance need to get in
those level of weeds.
>> Uh, but approving the fund I think we
need to agree to. So
>> my question was simply I know this has
come before the board before multiple
times that Cheryl I'd have to you know
within the last year or Eric brought it
to our attention they were trying to
downsize the amount of funds but
>> yeah and I I'm assuming by the way
because this is charital or something
not appropriate to stick it in the stiff
account with the rest of our money.
>> That's what I was thinking.
>> That would be nice.
>> Well that's so that's the question. I
mean, you know, Mnt
>> not in town account, so it's probably
not.
>> It's probably not going to work. Okay.
All right.
>> Well, then the best if the best you can
do is two two and a half% is better than
effectively zero. So, right.
>> Oh, I know that. Yeah. Okay. I knew I'd
>> But I'm fine with setting up the the
fund. I mean, the fund fund and account
aren't the same thing, right? Was we
just discussed, but yeah, I mean,
whatever we need to do mechanically to
do that while they then hopefully come
back and agree to the consolidation. I
mean, I don't see why they wouldn't, but
>> Sure.
>> I'll go ahead and make the motion. I
mean, are we at the motion?
>> You like Go ahead.
>> I don't want, like Louise said, I would
hate for the town to to lose the money
if they were willing to set up that. So,
I I don't have the language in front of
me, but I'll make the motion to
>> Are we accepting the Norton Commission?
I I think we would be authorizing the
treasurer to create another fund for the
legacy scholarship fund um you know in
>> legacy scholarship fund
>> or or whatever name would is is logical
to name it. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Whatever that said in that email
you read it
>> regarding account setup that's required
to do that. Yeah.
>> And I'll second that.
>> Go with the name. Yeah.
Yeah, I think it was the Joy Grer legacy
scholarship.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, that sounds right.
>> Yeah, that that sounds good.
>> Authorizing the treasurer to set up
that. Yeah.
>> Okay. Like I said, I second.
>> So, Joanne made the motion and and Rob
second. Second.
>> Yes. Yep.
>> Further discussion?
>> Okay. All those in favor say I.
>> I. I.
>> I. Any opposed?
Any abstensions?
Okay. Hearing none, uh, the motion
passes. Very good. Thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> All right. And we will move on.
>> Thank you, Louise.
>> Yeah.
>> No problem.
>> Um, move on to our next agenda item,
which is now be number six, which is the
board open discussion. Does anybody have
anything else to bring before the board?
CIP was canceled. I got nothing there.
>> Okay.
>> Hearing none. I guess we'll move on to
item seven, which is public speak.
Linda.
>> All set. Nice seeing you all though.
>> You Well, we didn't see.
>> Thank you, Linda. Thanks for joining.
>> Hearing from you
>> or hearing seeing your name there.
>> There she is.
>> That's better. That's better. put her
into it.
>> Okay. So, we'll go ahead on to item
eight now, which is adjournment. Anybody
like to make a motion to adjurnn?
>> I'll make the motion.
>> Make a motion to adjourn.
>> Okay. I heard
>> Liz,
Liz.
>> Okay, Kimberly. Second. I heard it. All
Any discussion?
>> Has to be the shortest meeting I've ever
attended.
>> Is that
>> Thank you everybody. Motion pass.
>> Have a good night. That was a good
night.